[ Music ]
>> Here I had friends,
now I have sisters.
Here I helped people,
now I help the community.
Do you know where I am?
I am in girl scouts.
>> Deborah Hearn Smith.
CEO Girl Scouts of
Central Indiana
and we're located
here in Indianapolis.
We started this when we looked
out over the landscape and saw
that central Indiana
was changing.
We first went out and asked the
new communities what it is you
want for your young girls that
girl scouting can provide?
We found two things
very interesting.
We want our girls to know
how to navigate the system
and be successful,
and we would want you
to respect our culture
and our families.
So, we took that and
we moved forward.
We have a dual program.
A program for women
who are bilingual,
who are new in our community,
help develop their leadership
skill, and we have the girls.
>> The volunteers, or the
leaders, that we are working
with us, is Spanish speaking,
are a little afraid
to try new things.
They need to learn
and understand our way
and our promise, and helped
them to do that very easy.
Having these books has been
excellent because it explains
from the beginning to the
end what girl scout is about.
The leadership is there,
from the page one to the end.
For them to understand and
for the girls to also see
that it is there program,
they are the leaders, the mom
or the volunteer is just
there to support them
and to help them,
and they understand
that from the very first moment.
[ Foreign Language ]
>> The new troop leaders
that I am trying to recruit,
they have the new troops.
I try to encourage them to
work in My Promise, My Faith.
It's easy for all
Latinos work on a topic
that is represent the community,
and we are very family oriented
and [inaudible] oriented.
And, when you are speaking
out My Promise, My Faith,
you are speaking their
self and hope they are.
>> It doesn't matter
how old you are.
You can always do anything
other people can do.
You just got to believe in
yourself, got to have faith.
So, and if you just believe
in yourself anything
can be possible.
>> We just started not too long
ago and we actually started off
with just getting to know each
other, icebreakers, and I help,
like, get the games started, and
just get the conversation going.
We actually started My
Promise, My Faith and that's
where we did the
diagram of how religion
and the Girl Scout law overlaps.
When I see them, I actually see,
like, myself as a younger girl.
I was actually a lot like
a lot of them, really shy,
I didn't like answering
questions.
Girl scouts has actually gotten
me out of little shy shell
and I've been able to, like, do
a lot of things with my life,
and with my high school
career, and just, everything.
>> It doesn't matter
if we're little girls,
we can still do anything.
We can still, like, -- We
can still climb a mountain.
We're unstoppable,
that's how we are.
[ Music ]